---
permalink: /research/
title: "Research"
---

Research played a central role in my stay at the Florida International University. My research group has expertise in design automation for electronic systems. More specifically, it includes advanced real-time computing, embedded system design, thermal/power-aware computing, advanced computer architecture, and high-performance computing. I got motivated to extend and apply these fundamentals to the latest artificial intelligence technology in autonomous vehicle system design. 

**Abstract:** Autonomous vehicle (AV) technology is transforming the world in the coming decades due to its tremendous social and economic benefits. However, significant technical challenges still need to be overcome until AVs can be safely, reliably, and massively deployed. Temperature plays a key role in the safety and reliability of an AV, not only because a vehicle is subjected to extreme operating temperatures but also because the increasing computations demand more powerful IC chips, which can lead to higher operating temperatures and large thermal gradients. In particular, as the underpinning technology for AV, artificial intelligence (AI) requires substantially increased computation and memory resources, which have been growing exponentially through recent years and further exacerbated the thermal
problems. High operating temperatures and large thermal gradients can reduce performance, degrade reliability, and even cause an IC to fail catastrophically. 

We believe that dealing with thermal issues must be coupled closely in the design phase of the AVs’ electronic control system (ECS). To this end, first, we study how to map vehicle applications to ECS with heterogeneous architecture to satisfy peak temperature constraints and optimize latency and system-level reliability. We present a mathematical programming model to bound the peak temperature for the ECS. We also develop an approach based on the genetic algorithm to bound the peak temperature under varying execution time scenarios and optimize the system-level reliability of the ECS. We present several computationally efficient techniques for system-level mean-time-to-failure (MTTF) computation, which show several orders-of-magnitude speed-up over the state-of-the-art method. Second, we focus on studying the thermal impacts of AI techniques. Specifically, we study how the thermal impacts of the memory bit flipping can affect the prediction accuracy of a deep neural network (DNN). We develop a neuron-level analytical sensitivity estimation framework to quantify this impact and study its effectiveness with popular DNN architectures. Third, we study the problem of incorporating thermal impacts into mapping the parameters for DNN neurons to memory banks to improve prediction accuracy. Based on our developed sensitivity metric, we develop a bin-packing-based approach to map DNN neuron parameters to memory banks with different temperature profiles. We also study the problem of identifying the optimal temperature profiles for memory systems that can minimize the thermal impacts. We show that the thermal aware mapping of DNN neuron parameters on memory banks can significantly improve the prediction accuracy at a high-temperature range than the thermal ignorant for state-of-the-art DNNs.

If you are interested, you can access my doctoral dissertation [here](https://digitalcommons.fiu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=6419&context=etd){:target="_blank"} or [here](http://AjinkyaBankar.github.io/files/dissertation.pdf){:target="_blank"}.
